Trademarks
A trademark  is any sign or any combination of signs used to distinguish  the goods and/or services offered by one undertaking from those offered by another
Signs that cannot be used as trademarks
1. Those that mislead the consumer in relation to the geographical origin
2. Thise that mislead the consumer in relation to quality or nature of the product or service to which the trademark relates. 
3. Those that are contrary, to moral or public order.
4. Those that consist of or contain reproduction of armorial bearings , flags and other emblems of state party to the paris convention or world trade organisation.
Characteristics of a trademark
1. Must be distinctive
	- To be distinctive must be in its very nature be able to distinguish goods and services, e.g "apple" , while "Apple" is very disctinctive trademark as it has nothing to do with apple. It would not be not be distinctive to actual apples. In other words, someone who grows and sells apples would not register "apple" as a trademark and protect it since his or her competitors, have to be able to use the word to escribe their own goods.
2. Must not be deceptive.
	- typically a deceptive trademark would be one that says, that the goods that which is for use have certain qualities then they don't, e.g Trademark real leather for goods that are not made of genuine leather.

Sec 14 of Trade Mark Act - no person shall register as a trade mark or part
of a trade mark any matter the use of which would, by reason of its being
likely to deceive or cause confusion or otherwise, be disentitled to
protection in a court of justice, or would be contrary to law or morality,
or any scandalous design.

Trademark is valid for 10 years from date of application, 6months prior to the expiry of the 10 years the registrar will notify the owner of the trademark of the imminent expiry.
The owner may the apply for a renewal, which covers the next 10  years and the renewal can continue every 10 years upon renewal.

Well known marks
Some companies have been successfully established via their trademarks or
service marks, worldwide renown.
 Subsequently, consumers can effortlessly recognize and identify their goods and
services, their qualities and their features without referring to the location of
the company in question

Factors to be considered to determine whether a mark is well known or not.
1. Degree of knowledge or recognition of the mark, in the relevant sector of the public
2. Duration, extent and geographical of any use of the mark
The duration, extent and geographical area of any use of the mark.
 The duration, extent and geographical area of any promotion of the mark,
including advertising or publicity and the presentation, at fairs or exhibitions, of
the goods and/or services to which the mark applies.
 The duration and geographical area of any registrations, and/or any applications
for registration, of the mark, to the extent that they reflect use or recognition
of the mark.
 the record of successful enforcement of rights in the mark, in particular, the
extent to which the mark was recognized as well known by competent
authorities;
 The value associated with the mark.